# Optimization

An optimization problem consists of maximizing or minimizing a real function by systematically choosing input values from within an allowed set and computing the value of the function. The generalization of optimization theory and techniques to other formulations constitutes a large area of applied mathematics. More generally, optimization includes finding "best available" values of some objective function given a defined domain (or input), including a variety of different types of objective functions and different types of domains.

# Meta-heuristic-optimization
Algorithms with stochastic components were often referred to as heuristic in the past, though the recent literature tends to refer to them as metaheuristics.
Two major components of any metaheuristic algorithms are: intensification and diversification, or exploitation and exploration
 Diversification means to generate diverse solutions so as to explore the search space on a global scale, while intensification means to focus the search in a local region knowing that a current good solution is found in this region. A good balance between intensification and diversification should be found during the selection of the best solutions to improve the rate of algorithm convergence. The selection of the best ensures that solutions will converge to the optimum, while diversification via randomization allows the search to espace from local optima and, at the same time, increases the diversity of solutions. A good combination of these two major components will usually ensure that global optimality is achievable.
